Now let's look at deleting a node from a binary search tree.
So there's three cases we'll look at.
One is when the node we want to delete is a leaf node,
another case is when the node we want to delete has one child node,
and another case is when the node that has two child nodes.
So here's the first case,
when it's a leaf node that we want to delete.
Let's say we want to delete 4.
So we traverse down until we find 4 and then we set the pointer of its parent.
So this parent is 3 we set its left child pointer to none to remove 4 from the tree.
Case 2 is if the node has one child node.
So let's say we want to delete node 3 and it has one child node.
What we can do is,
for this node's parent,
which is 5, we want to its this left pointer to point to its child.
So it's going around 3 and we can also set node 3 to none to delete it.
Here's a third case,
if the node has two child nodes.
So let's say in this tree,
we want to delete node 7.
It has a left child and also a right child.
So we want to find the next highest value in order,
for example, there's 3,
and 4, 5, 6, 7,
8, so the next highest value from 7 is 8.
We find this by going to the right sub-tree of 7, the one we want to delete,
and then traversing all the way to the left to find
the smallest value in its right subtree.
Because remember, everything in the right subtree should be greater than 7,
everything in the left subtree should be less than 7 But then if we go
here within this subtree to find the smallest value,
we just keep traversing left until there's no left child to
traverse and then that's the minimum value within this right subtree.
What we'll do is we copy this value and then we
replace the value in this node with this copy value of 8.
Then for this node that we just copied over,
we also want to remove it.
So we have its parent, which is 9,
have it point to its left child pointer to the right child of 8.
We'll also set node 8 to none and delete it.